the sight of its fin in the water
nearly stops your heart it's the reason
you feel
so uneasy going for a swim at the beach
that massive razor-toothed hunter that's
made its name known
the great white shark so if the ultimate
terror of the sea
is leaving the area it must be for a
good reason
but what could possibly scare the great
white away
a giant lovecraftian monster that makes
even megalodon look tiny not even close
nothing can clear a portion of the ocean
as quickly as
orcas can when their powerful pods come
looking for food like seals and squids
even the biggest scariest sharks leave
the area without looking back
it's not known if these whales
specifically target great whites
or they're just keeping the competition
out of the area
but what marine experts do know is that
sharks flee
sometimes not even coming back until the
following year
yeah makes sense orcas are much larger
than great whites in size
they have plenty of teeth and they'll
use them to satisfy their
merciless desire for meat orcas are also
highly intelligent
and will work as a team to get what they
want whether that's catching a school of
fish
getting seals off the ice or even
chasing down humpback whales
so if the great white shark itself is
scared of the mighty orca
should you be well me personally i keep
my distance from any wild animal
but maybe this will help you sleep
better at night
orcas are known to be picky eaters good
news for you
human isn't on the menu they aren't
likely to change their diet just because
you're in the water today
oh by the way orcas aren't even whales
they're technically the largest species
of dolphin and sharks are also afraid of
their relative
the bottlenose dolphin even a single
bottlenose is too powerful for a shark
but they're tougher when they travel as
a pie
sharks are easily outmaneuvered by the
highly agile marine mammals
they use that blunt snout like a
battering ram
this basically annoys the shark so much
that it just leaves the area
now if you think about other top hunters
in the animal kingdom
wolves always come to mind pacs can take
over vast territories
and since they're at the top of the food
chain they get to pick and choose from a
large menu with
anything they please they're highly
intelligent fast and agile
but probably their biggest advantage
numbers
if grizzlies or mountain lions try
taking advantage of them
the numbers game always works in the
wool's favor
leading to the hunter becoming the honda
even without numbers they dominate and
terrify
it's too hard for any other animal to
target a lone wolf
so even they are usually left alone
imagine being able to pounce a wild boar
in below freezing temperatures
while dressed in orange against a
completely snow-covered white
environment
siberian tigers are clearly not playing
around
over 10 feet long and weighing up to 400
pounds
they're the largest of all wild cats
this kitty could easily jump right over
your head
while carrying double its body weight
the only animal that can really
challenge this king of the forest
is a large enough brown bear and it'd be
a close call
no wonder the siberian tiger is the top
of the food chain in its part of the
globe
as for the top boss in the waters of
south america that would be the green
anaconda
not even jaguars and cayman are safe
around the biggest snake in the world
the murky waters of riverbanks
camouflage the giant snake perfectly
they go unnoticed sitting there waiting
for something to come have a drink
and then whoosh the snake strikes it
uses its sharp curved teeth
and 15 feet of pure muscle to hold its
lunge in place
luckily for most animals after eating
their fill
anacondas can go weeks or even months
without worrying about their next meal
but the world's biggest snake isn't the
most dangerous
that title belongs to the black mamba
lions spotted hyenas giraffes
and even elephants will avoid the mamba
at all costs
they all know one bite can stop them
very quickly
growing up to 14 feet it's the second
longest venomous snake in the world
after the king cobra the african black
mamba does hold the top spot
as the world's fastest snake it slithers
along going 12 miles per hour
that's about where most treadmills max
out not top dog
but worth a mention is the green
anaconda's neighbor
the electric eel very few animals are
willing to take on such a highly
charged creature electric eels have
around 6
000 special cells that can produce up to
800 volts of electricity
that's more than six times the standard
us wall socket
that's enough to knock a horse off its
feet and to power holiday lights
in 2019 a tennessee aquarium hooked some
tree lights up to their eel tank
every time the eel shot the water the
trees lit up
now it's been said that the electric eel
can recycle its volts
in a process called revolting nah i made
that up
one more truthful eel fact to knock you
off your feet
electric eels are air breathers they
have to surface about every 10 minutes
to fill their mouth with
air yep their single lung is in their
mouth
does the king of the jungle reign
unchallenged
in books and movies sure in real life
and not so much for one their home is on
the african plains not the jungle
a whole assortment of contenders like
hyenas leopards and crocodiles
are always trying to take the king's
crown even zebras and giraffes can stop
the big cats with a quick
kick if they're cornered if we go by
bite force the african nile crocodile
has the biggest that humanity has ever
measured
its jaws are five times more powerful
than that of alliance
now earlier with the water critters all
you had to do was avoid the water
good luck avoiding a lion they can run
50 miles per hour
jump the length of a school bus and
climb trees
the lion's biggest challenger for the
apex roll
is the african wild dog these two are
constantly going at it because they hunt
for the same food
in the same area where there's a big
pride of lions the dogs have no choice
but to flee
but they've got one thing against the
cats
endurance lions might reach incredible
speeds but that's only in short bursts
it takes too much energy to carry 400
plus pounds of muscle
over long distances while going as fast
as you can
african wild dogs though have long
slender legs and big lungs for their
body size
meaning they can run fast and keep it up
for miles
that's how they hunt their lunch just
gets tired of running
there's one animal brave enough to take
on the king if the cat gets too curious
the hippo they may seem cute and squishy
but hippos are one of the most dangerous
animals on the planet
based on statistics you should fear them
way more than great white sharks
and there's nothing squishy about them
hippos are pure muscle
and weigh as much as a car their pointy
canine teeth can grow longer than your
forearm
these guys aren't afraid of anything
even lions and crocodiles prefer to keep
their distance
their name means water horse and they do
spend up to 16 hours a day submerged
funny thing is hippos can't really swim
if you see one swimming
it's actually pushing itself off the
lake or river bottom
it can still be even the best olympic
swimmer speed so
watch out yep move aside leo
hippos are the true apex animal of
africa
but i wouldn't get close enough to give
them the award
as for the ruler of the forest make way
for the grizzly bear
weighing over half a ton you'd be
mistaken thinking these large fluff
balls are slow and bumbling
being able to maintain a speed of 25
miles per hour for long stretches
is too easy for the behemoth brown bear
uphill downhill and on every terrain
they're the off-road suv of the animal
world
without having any natural enemies this
bear is at the top of its local food
chain
good thing they sleep for a third of the
year just hope you don't run into a
grizzly um
ever but especially right before it's
about to go into hibernation
they spend the autumn months fattening
up for winter
and they're even hungrier than usual now
being the largest bird of prey in north
america
it's no wonder the golden eagle is found
all over the continent
in woodlands and mountain ranges their
wingspan
is nearly eight feet and they don't call
it eagle vision for nothing
these birds can spot a rabbit from three
miles up in the air
you'd be like you seeing an ant while
standing on top of a 10 story building
golden eagles can also make quick dives
from a great hive
during these dives they can reach speeds
up to 200 miles per hour
as fast as a flying arrow